GitHub 

git init   
git add .
git commit -m "Comment"

	git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
	git config --global user.name "Your Name"

git remote add origin git@github.com:User/UserRepo.git
git push -u origin master

git clone "Git repo URL"
git remote add origin https://github.com/ArtisahuGit/OrangeHRM.git 
git pull origin master

Jenkins

Run selenium script through Jenkins
1. Download Jenkins from the official website of Jenkins
2. Open cmd java –jar and enter the path of a .war file
3. Type “http://localhost:8080” in the browser and press enter.
4. Go to Jenkins dashboard -- Click on manage Jenkins -- Click on configure Jenkins -- Click on JDK installation(In JDK name section enter the name, under Java Home section – give your java path)
5. Create a TestNG xml file of script.
6. Open the notepad and type-: Java –cp bin;lib/* org.testng.TestNG testng.xml(Save the file with .bat extension)
7. Create a freestyle project in jenkins
8. Click on use custom workspace under Advance project option and give your Selenium script project workspace path
9. Then go to Build and Select an option from the drop-down box, execute your build through Windows batch command
10.Click on apply and save
11.Click on the build now and see the build result on console output

Scheduling a Simple Job
1. After creating a project in jenkins
2. Go to Build Triggers section select the checkbox marked Build periodically.
3. Set the time when you run the build.

Polls SCM
1. After creating a project in jenkins
2. Go to Build Triggers section select the checkbox marked Poll SCM.
3. In source code managnment section select the SCM you want.
4. Give Repo URL and branch name where you want to get the script.

Multiple SCM in Jenkins job
1. Install Multiple SCMs plugin
2. After creating a project in jenkins
3. In source code managnment section select the SCM you want.
4. Give both the Repo URL and branch name where you want to get the script.
5. Select checkout to sub directry. Path of the directory.

Master and Slave in jenkins
1.On your master machine go to Manage Jenkins > Manage Nodes.
2.New Node -- Enter Node Name -- Select Permanent Agent -- Press OK.
3.Set a number of executors -- Set a Remote FS Root (For a Windows slave, use something like: "C:\Jenkins\")
4.Usage setting:"Leave this machine for tied jobs only" -- Launch Method:"Launch slave agents via Java Web Start" -- Press OK
5.Manage Jenkins -- Manage Nodes -- Download the slave node and run that npde in the slave machine.

